2020-12-06 Choice of Interface to Oracle
========================================

Overview
--------

I will be moving from using BASH to the Python package,
[cx_Oracle](https://oracle.github.io/python-cx_Oracle),
in order to manage the Oracle database instance.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Design Options](#design-options)
  * [Overview](#overview)
  * [BASH](#bash)
  * [Oratcl](#oratcl)
  * [cx_Oracle](#cx_oracle)

Design Options
==============

Overview
--------

The configuration of the database requires access to an Oracle database. I know
of three (3) options to do so:
1. BASH
1. Oratcl
1. cx_Oracle

BASH
----

This is the method I have been using for some time to send SQL commands to
Oracle database. There is some overhead with invoking SQL*Plus every time I
want to run a SQL command. I also have to be conscious of BASH quoting of
strings (especially with dynamic views which include the '$' character).

To achieve this in a robust way, I have to create a helper function to
invoke the SQL*Plus utility. This function can only accept a single SQL
command, and does not directly allow conditional execution within a suite
of SQL commands.

The advantages are of familarity and ease of implementation as BASH is
expected to be available on nearly all Linux systems. The disadvantages
are the clumsy invocation of SQL commands through a function, and
BASH quoting rules.

Oratcl
------

There is a TCL module, called
[Oratcl](https://sourceforge.net/projects/oratcl/),
that allows TclSH scripts to communicate with an Oracle instance. This might
avoid some of the clumsiness of using shell scripts to call SQLPlus.

I tried to implement Oratcl, but ran afoul of package search paths. I gave up
on this because it was too complicated to unravel quickly. It might be
benefical in the future, but I see a limited advantage in doing so as I
would need to commit a long time to learn and ovecome problems for a
module that is not in wide use.

cx_Oracle
---------

[cx_Oracle](https://oracle.github.io/python-cx_Oracle) is a Python
interface which I have used previously.

I have had difficulty with database instance start-up, but I found a viable
example at
[DatabaseStartup.py](https://github.com/oracle/python-cx_Oracle/blob/master/samples/DatabaseStartup.py).

