Design Journal Entry 2020-11-12
===============================

Overview
--------

The objective of the experiment to determine if the use of [Oracle Resource Manager](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/admin/managing-resources-with-oracle-database-resource-manager.html#GUID-2BEF5482-CF97-4A85-BD90-9195E41E74EF) (ORM) significantly improves the throughput of an Oracle database instance under 100% CPU load. Several factors have been identified.

Table of Contents
-----------------

* [Hypotheses](#hypotheses)
* [Factors](#factors)
* [Factor: Number of Cores](#factor-number-of-cores)
* [Factor: Underlying Operating System](#factor-underlying-operating-system)
* [Factor: Type of Workload](#factor-type-of-workload)
* [Blocking](#blocking)

Hypotheses
----------

The null hypothesis for this experiment is:
> That the use of the Oracle Resource Manager in a single pluggable database (PDB) has no effect on the throughput once 100% CPU usage has been used.

The alternative hypothesis is:
> That the use of the Oracle Resource Manager in a single pluggable database (PDB) increases the throughput once 100% CPU usage has been used.

Factors
-------

Possible factors that might affect the outcome of the experiment are:
- Number of cores
- Underlying operating system
- Type of workload

Factor: Number of Cores
-----------------------

The main impact on performance arising from the number of cores is that of cache invalidation due to the process moving between cores.

Factor: Underlying Operating System
-----------------------------------

Windows and Linux use different CPU scheduling algorithms: FIFO or Round-Robin (respectively). This might affect the performance of the VM running on Windows or Linux.

Factor: Type of Workload
------------------------

A CPU intensive workload needs to be generated. In a database instance, such a workload is very unusual. Most database workloads have I/O interleaved in a workload. This will probably influence.

Blocking
--------

I have Windows and Linux installed on different types of hardware: laptop and desktop. This will introduce a variance to performance measurements.
