Design Journal Entry 2020-11-18
===============================

Overview
--------

The decisions were mainly about which parameters to set in the response file
that is used during silent installation of the Oracle 19C software.

I also encountered several issues with using NAS for the installation source.
I overcome this using the downloaded archive and extracting the installation
files directly on the test server (__DURAL__).

Table of Contents
=================

* [Building-DB-Install-Response-File](#building-db-install-response-file)
  * [File-Name](#file-name)
  * [Templating-Variable-Names](#templating-variable-names)
  * [Hard-Coded-Values](#hard-coded-values)
  * [Parameters-without-Values](#parameters-without-values)
  * [Parameters-with-Passwords](#parameters-with-passwords)
  * [Variables-Attached-to-Template-Step](#variables-attached-to-template-step)
* [Errors-Encountered](#errors-encountered)
  * [Using-NAS](#using-nas)
  * [Doing-Patching-During-Installation](#doing-patching-during-installation)
  * [Wrong-Operating-System](#wrong-operating-system)

Building DB Install Response File
=================================

File Name
---------

The file was called `db_install.rsp.j2` because `db_install.rsp` matches the
name in the documentation
([Editing a Response File Template](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/ladbi/editing-a-response-file-template.html#GUID-662F8635-947B-4774-B9BB-3752B47C3F91)).
The suffix `.j2` was added to emphasise that this file is a Jinga2 template
file.

Templating Variable Names
-------------------------

Most of the variable names used in the template file closely resembled the
names of the parameters in the response file. Usually, one was uppercase while
the other was lowercase.

Hard-Coded Values
-----------------

The following parameters had hard-coded values:
* `oracle.install.db.InstallEdition=EE` because I am only interested in the
Enterprise Edition (EE).
* `oracle.install.db.rootconfig.executeRootScript=false` because I want more
control over the execution of `root` and I am not comfortable with having OUI
do these scripts. Plus, the complexity of how Ansible scripts execute may
impede this.
* `oracle.install.db.ConfigureAsContainerDB=true` because I am only using
container databases (CDB) going forward.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.installExampleSchemas=false` because I
would be using HammerDB installing the test schemas.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.enableRecovery=true` because this is good
practice for any database.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.storageType=FILE_SYSTEM_STORAGE` because
I am not using stand alone Grid Infrastructure (i.e. no ASM).

Parameters without Values
-------------------------

The following parameters were not set:
* `oracle.install.db.OSOPER_GROUP` because it is marked as optional.
* `oracle.install.db.OSBACKUPDBA_GROUP` because it was optional in earlier
versions.
* `oracle.install.db.OSDGDBA_GROUP` because it was optional in earlier
versions.
* `oracle.install.db.OSKMDBA_GROUP` because it was optional in earlier
versions.
* `oracle.install.db.OSRACDBA_GROUP` because it was optional in earlier
versions.
* `oracle.install.db.rootconfig.configMethod` because
`oracle.install.db.rootconfig.executeRootScript=false`.
* `oracle.install.db.rootconfig.sudoUserName` because
`oracle.install.db.rootconfig.executeRootScript=false`.
* `oracle.install.db.CLUSTER_NODES` because this is a stand alone server.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.password.DBSNMP` because Cloud Control is
not being used to monitor this database instance.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.omsHost` because Cloud Control is
not being used to monitor this database instance.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.omsPort` because Cloud Control is
not being used to monitor this database instance.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.emAdminUser` because Cloud Control is
not being used to monitor this database instance.
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.emAdminPassword` because Cloud Control is
not being used to monitor this database instance.
* `oracle.install.db.config.asm.diskGroup` because I am using the file system to
store the database files.
* `oracle.install.db.config.asm.ASMSNMPPassword` because I am using the file
system to store the database files.

Parameters with Passwords
-------------------------

The following parameters contain passwords and need special processing:
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.password.ALL`
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.password.SYS`
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.password.SYSTEM`
* `oracle.install.db.config.starterdb.password.PDBADMIN`

My solution is to create a directory, called
`demos/resource_manager_thruput/passwords`, and added that directory to the
`.gitignore` file so that any files in that directory do appear in the public
GIT repository. This is similar to the solution I used in the ANSIBLE_OCM12C
repository.

The proper way, under Ansible, would be to use Ansible Vault. But I have no
experience with this product, and I am leery of placing encrypted passwords
into a public GIT repository.

The structure of this file is:
```yaml
---
pw_all:         "<pw1>"
pw_sys:         "<pw2>"
pw_system:      "<pw3>"
pw_pdbadmin:    "<pw4>"
...
```

Variables Attached to Template Step
-----------------------------------

The following variables were included directly in the file template step:
* `install_option`
* `starter_db_type`
* `globalDBName`
* `SID`
* `PDBName`
* `characterSet`
* `memoryLimit`

These variables are used nowhere else in the script.

__NOTE:__ This option is __NOT__ available in the __TEMPLATE__ module.
All of these variables were moved to the global variables section.

Errors Encountered
==================

Using NAS
---------

When I tried to use the NAS as the source for the installation files, I got
this error:
```
[Errno 13] Permission denied: b'/opt/share/Software/database/linuxamd64_193000/runInstaller
```
and:
```
/opt/share/Software/database/linuxamd64_193000/runInstaller: line 57: /opt/share/Software/database/linuxamd64_193000/bin/commonSetup.sh: Permission denied
```
and:
```
ERROR: Unable to continue with the setup. Ensure user (oracle) has execution permission over software home (/opt/share/Software/database/linuxamd64_193000).
```

The difficulty with using a NAS is that security is maintained through userids
and groupids (both numeric), not names. It is possible to have a user with
different userids on multiple systems, and therefore will not have the same
security access on those systems.

Doing Patching During Installation
----------------------------------

Once I moved to using local installation files, I then encountered the following
errors:
```
Preparing the home to patch...
Applying the patch /opt/share/Software/database/p31720396_190000_Linux-x86-64...
OPatch command failed while applying the patch. For details look at the logs from /home/oracle/linuxamd64_193000/cfgtoollogs/opatchauto/.
```

Eventually, I just removed the patch apply from the installation step. It would
appear that the patch apply will have to be done separately from the software
installation.

Wrong Operating System
----------------------

Oracle Linux 8 is not supported for Oracle 19C. I should have checked the
installation guide. The error message was:
```
[WARNING] [INS-08101] Unexpected error while executing the action at state: 'supportedOSCheck'
```

However [Supported Oracle Linux 8 Distributions for x86-64](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/ladbi/supported-oracle-linux-8-distributions-for-x86-64.html#GUID-F4902762-325B-4C89-B85B-F52BA482190F)
says:
> Minimum supported versions:
> 
> * Oracle Linux 8.1 with the Unbreakable Enterprise Kernel 6: 5.4.17-2011.0.7.el8uek.x86\_64 or later
> * Oracle Linux 8 with the Red Hat Compatible Kernel: 4.18.0-80.el8.x86\_64 or later

I should be safe with:
```bash
[oracle@dural ~]$ cat /etc/os-release
NAME="Oracle Linux Server"
VERSION="8.1"
ID="ol"
ID_LIKE="fedora"
VARIANT="Server"
VARIANT_ID="server"
VERSION_ID="8.1"
PLATFORM_ID="platform:el8"
PRETTY_NAME="Oracle Linux Server 8.1"
ANSI_COLOR="0;31"
CPE_NAME="cpe:/o:oracle:linux:8:1:server"
HOME_URL="https://linux.oracle.com/"
BUG_REPORT_URL="https://bugzilla.oracle.com/"

ORACLE_BUGZILLA_PRODUCT="Oracle Linux 8"
ORACLE_BUGZILLA_PRODUCT_VERSION=8.1
ORACLE_SUPPORT_PRODUCT="Oracle Linux"
ORACLE_SUPPORT_PRODUCT_VERSION=8.1
```
and:
```bash
[oracle@dural ~]$ uname -a
Linux dural.yaocm.id.au 4.18.0-147.el8.x86_64 #1 SMP Tue Nov 12 11:05:49 PST 2019 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

So, the O/S version and Kernel version are OK. Issue #10 has been raised.

