2020-11-29 Completion of DB Installation
========================================

Overview
--------

Have completed installation and basic configuration of the test database.
This final run took five (5) hours.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Issues Resolved](#issues-resolved)
* [Design Decisions](#design-decisions)
  * [Location of Patches](#location-of-patches)
  * [DB Configuration](#db-configuration)
  * [Application of Patches](#application-of-patches)
  * [More Stringent Path Checking](#more-stringent-path-checking)
  * [Changed Method of DB Software Installation](#changed-method-of-db-software-installation)
  * [Install Latest Version of OPatch](#install-latest-version-of-opatch)
* [Technical Debt](#technical-debt)

Issues Resolved
===============

- #10 DURAL: Pre-installation O/S checks fails for Oracle 19.3 on OL8
- #11 DURAL: Incorrect Home Used in Response File
- #12 DURAL: Unable to Create Oracle Home
- #13 DURAL: Apply of Patch Fails
- #14 DURAL: Oracle Groups are Missing from the Response File
- #15 DURAL: Optional configuration warning prevents DB SW Installation
- #16 DURAL: Complete configuration after Oracle DB Software Installation Fails
- #17 HAMMER: Upgrade to V4.0 
- #18 DURAL: Apply of Patches Failed
- #19 DURAL: Failed to Start DB after Patching
- #20 DURAL: ORA 700 [pga physmem limit] during DB Configuration

Design Decisions
================

Location of Patches
-------------------

I moved the location of the extracted patches off the NFS onto the local drive
on __DURAL__. The reason for this change is because of NFS permissions are
based on a numeric ID instead of a name. If the numeric ID is different across
systems for a given user, say `oracle`, then that user will have differing
permissions.

The location of the patch directory was chosen based on a suggestion of a blog
post called "[Install and Patch in one single action with OUI](https://mikedietrichde.com/2020/07/28/install-and-patch-in-one-single-action-with-oui/)".
This is in a subdirectory, called `patch`, of the Oracle Home. No other
locations were considered.

DB Configuration
----------------

The configuration of the database was done through a shell script, called
`config_rdbms.sh`, that was generated from a Jinja2 template.

The name of the script was chosen to reflect that of the installation
script, `install_rdbms.sh`. This concurs with my preference for using a
verb followed by a noun for names. The suffix of `.sh` indicates that
this is a shell script.

The `-noconfig` option was removed as it:
> suppresses running the configuration assistants during installation, and
> a software-only installation is performed instead.
(see "[Running Oracle Universal Installer in Silent or Suppressed Mode](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/18/otgis/using-response-files-for-noninteractive-installation.html#GUID-3AB6881C-E7FA-4051-B012-B7C018780286)")

Application of Patches
----------------------

The application of patches to the database was done through a shell script, called
`apply_patches.sh`, that was generated from a Jinja2 template.

The name of the script was chosen to concur with my preference for using a
verb followed by a noun for names. The suffix of `.sh` indicates that
this is a shell script.

More Stringent Path Checking
----------------------------

I have created a utility, called [ansible-check.sh](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/local_utilities/blob/master/ansible-check.sh),
that does a sanity check on Ansible playbooks. The CHECK mode used by this script fails
on missing directories and files, even though these directories and files are
created in the normal course of these playbooks.

To ensure a clean run-through of the sanity checks, many tasks now have the
following block appended in order that the task is only executed when the
Oracle Home has been created successfully:
```yaml
  when:
  - oracle_home.stat is defined
  - oracle_home.stat.exists
```
A similar model is used for the OPatch utility.

Changed Method of DB Software Installation
------------------------------------------

Since the installation software is now extracted directly into the Oracle Home,
another method is required to detect whether the DB software has been installed.
This is achieved through the use of the OPatch querying the Oracle Inventory.

The old method was to detect the existence of the Oracle Home directory. The
new method is much safer.

Install Latest Version of OPatch
--------------------------------

I reproduced the code from [ansible-ocm12c/roles/oracle_clustered_server/tasks/apply_gi_psu.yml](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/ansible-ocm12c/blob/version_2/roles/oracle_clustered_server/tasks/apply_gi_psu.yml)
to install the latest available version of OPatch if the current version falls
below the minimum required.

This is done after the DB software has been installed and configured as only
minimal functionality is required from the OPatch for those steps.

Technical Debt
==============

There is a latent bug in the _DB Software Installation_ step -- all errors are
ignored. Hopefully, there are enough sanity checks on subsequent tasks to
prevent any major damage. This is the result of a work-around to issue #15.