Design Journal Entry 2020-11-16
===============================

Overview
--------

A CDB, called __DEMO19C__, will be created with a single PDB that has a service,
called __DEMO.YAOCM.ID.AU__, and a guaranteed restore point. The performance
data (AWR) will be stored in the CDB.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Design of Demonstration Database](#design-of-demonstration-database)
  * [Design Options](#design-options)
  * [Non-CDB Database](#non-cdb-database)
  * [CDB with Golden Image](#cdb-with-golden-image)
  * [CDB with PDB Flashback](#cdb-with-pdb-flashback)
* [Other Design Decisions](#other-design-decisions)
  * [Name of CDB](#name-of-cdb)
  * [Name of PDB](#name-of-pdb)

Design of Demonstration Database
================================

Design Options
--------------

The design options are:
1. Non-CDB database with flashback to a guaranteed restore point
2. CDB database with cloning from a golden image
3. CDB database with PDB flashback to a guaranteed restore point

Non-CDB Database
----------------

This is the option that I have used in the past. A non-CDB database is
provisioned and the test environment is established. A
[guaranteed restore point](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/bradv/using-flasback-database-restore-points.html#GUID-909BBEEF-389B-443B-8CD7-F3C027AAFFF3)
is then taken. A test is then done; the AWR data is exported before the database
is flashed back to the guaranteed restore point; and the test cycle repeats.

A major problem with this option is that one ends with overlapping AWR
snapshots as the snapshot is reset with the flashback.

The [19C Upgrade Manual](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/upgrd/behavior-changes-deprecated-desupport-oracle-database.html#GUID-1ADC5EB0-E1D7-4098-822C-27BA7B196A61) says: 
> The non-CDB architecture was deprecated in Oracle Database 12c. It can be
> desupported and unavailable in a release after Oracle Database 19c.
> 
> Oracle recommends use of the CDB architecture.

Although a non-CDB is still supported, it would be better to do this experiment
on a CDB.

CDB with Golden Image
---------------------

In this option, I create a PDB with the test data before mounting it read-only.
This becomes the golden image. I can then use cloning technology to create the
PDB that is then used for performance testing.

This option has the advantage of having the AWR data stored in the CDB. Thus,
the performance data is not lost when the cloned PDB is removed. This allows for
comparisons to be done directly using AWR tools as there is no overlap.
local undo
The disadvantage is there an extra layer of complexity in the cloning from a
golden image.

CDB with PDB Flashback
----------------------

In this option, a PDB created with the test data created and then a guaranteed
restore point is then created to act as a golden image.

This option of
[flashback PDB](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/bradv/rman-performing-flashback-dbpitr.html#GUID-5463669A-DC89-4FF4-ACCE-136A72DF687B)
is available with some caveats:
> Certain dependencies may exist between database point-in-time recovery
> (DBPITR) and flashback operations.
> 
> For pluggable databases (PDBs) that use local undo, DBPITR and flashback
> operations are independent of each other.
> 
> For PDBs that use shared undo, DBPITR and flashback operations are independent
> with the following caveat:
> 
> If you perform a flashback operation for a PDB or recover a PDB to a
> particular point in time, Oracle Database may apply undo data during the PDB
> RESETLOGS operation to back out transactions that are not committed at that
> point in time. If you subsequently recover the entire multitenant container
> database (CDB) to a point in time that is in the middle of the PDB RESETLOGS
> operation, then you will receive a warning that some PDBs may not be opened.
> For such PDBs, you must perform one of the following mutually exclusive
> actions:
> 
> - Recover the entire CDB or perform a flashback operation for the entire CDB
> to a different SCN
> 
> - Recover all the affected PDBs or perform a flashback database operation for
> all the affected PDBs to a different SCN

Thus, I will need to create
[local undo](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/19/multi/administering-a-cdb-with-sql-plus.html#GUID-1AAB032F-D13A-4E06-A062-59E0487C2FC5) for the test
PDB.

This will be my chosen option as the extra step of local undo is not
complicated.

Other Design Decisions
======================

Name of CDB
-----------

The names of the CDB are chosen to be:
1. __DEMO19C__ as the instance name;
2. __DEMOCDB19C__ as the database name;
3. __DEMO19C\_DURAL__ as the unique name;
4. __DEMOCDB19C.YAOCM.ID.AU__ as the global name.

The name, __DEMO__, is not really descriptive but this there is no purpose to
the data other than for demonstrations.

The suffix, __19C__, identifies the version of the Oracle Software used in case
I want to do comparisons between versions of Oracle.

The addition of __DURAL__ to the unique is a good habit to get into for Oracle
databases. Otherwise, it serves no real purpose here.

Name of PDB
-----------

The only important name is that of the service offered by the PDB is to be
__DEMO.YAOCM.ID.AU__ as this matches the name used in the `tsnames.ora` file
created on `hammer` system.
