2020-12-19 Remove Hard-Coded Hostnames
======================================

Overview
--------

Issue [#21](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/issues/21) is resolved by
using inventory groups instead of hard-coded hostnames. I still an
outstanding issue with TNSNames entries.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Issues](#issues)
  * [Files Affected](#files-affected)
  * [Design Options for Variables](#design-options-for-variables)
  * [Using Ansible roles](#using-ansible-roles)
  * [Using inventory groups](#using-inventory-groups)
  * [Add variable to hostname entries in inventory](#add-variable-to-hostname-entries-in-inventory)
  * [Add variable to hostname variable files](#add-variable-to-hostname-variable-files)
  * [Design Choices for Variable Name](#design-choices-for-variable-name)
  * [Review of Inventory File](#review-of-inventory-file)
  * [Coding When Clauses](#coding-when-clauses)
  * [Remaining Problems](#remaining-problems)

Issues
======

Issue, "[RES_MGR_THRU: Remove Hostnames from Scripts #21](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/issues/21)",
reflects my unease with hard-coding hostnames in playbooks. Even though I had
started coding using this style, I now realise that this was a mistake on my part.

Files Affected
--------------

The files affected by removing hostnames are:
- `configure_sut.yml`
- `create_test_server.yml`
- `install_hammerdb.yml`
- `startup_db.yml`

Design Options for Variables
----------------------------

There are several design options with removing hostnames from the playbooks:
- Using Ansible roles
- Using inventory groups
- Add variable to hostname entries in inventory
- Add variable to hostname variable files

Using Ansible roles
-------------------

[Ansible roles](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/playbooks_reuse_roles.html)
is the preferred way to code Ansible playbooks.

For a two (2) host configuration, I consider roles to be overkill because of the
overhead of creating and designing roles.

Using inventory groups
----------------------

Another way to classify hosts is through
[inventory groups](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/intro_inventory.html#inventory-basics-formats-hosts-and-groups).

Since there are only two (2) hosts in the configuration, using groups is an
overkill.

Add variable to hostname entries in inventory
---------------------------------------------

Adding
[variables to hostname entries in the inventory](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/network/getting_started/first_inventory.html#add-variables-to-the-inventory)
is my preferred way of describing the function of a host.

Add variable to hostname variable files
---------------------------------------

Variables can also be defined in
[variable files](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/user_guide/intro_inventory.html#splitting-out-vars).

This is also an overkill as there is only a few variables to be defined at most.
The inventory will not be cluttered with the addition of a few variables. Plus,
the variables are more visible.

Design Choices for Variable Name
--------------------------------
```yaml
when: inventory_hostname == "hammer.yaocm.id.au"
```
is replaced by:
```yaml
when: inventory_hostname in groups['client']
```


Possible names for the name of the variable name:
- `role`: this is too simple and could be confused with Ansible roles.
- `is_SUT`, `is_test_driver`: this pair of Boolean variables allows collapse of configuration into a single server. Complicates inventory by requiring two (2) variables instead of one (1).
- `server_type`: This is a generic variable name. But it appears to be distinctive enough for my purposes.

Review of Inventory File
------------------------

After doing all of the design work above, I discover that I had already used
groups in the inventory:
- __client__
- __database__

Coding When Clauses
-------------------

I use the following coding style:
```yaml
when: inventory_hostname == "hammer.yaocm.id.au"
```
is replaced by:
```yaml
when: inventory_hostname in groups['client']
```
and,
```yaml
when: inventory_hostname == "dual.yaocm.id.au"
```
is replaced by:
```yaml
when: inventory_hostname in groups['database']
```

Remaining Problems
------------------

In the playbook, `install_hammerdb.yml`, I still have hard-coded values
for __DURAL__.

