Design Journal Entry 2020-11-19
===============================

Overview
--------

This journal entry concerns responses to bugs found in the installation of the
Oracle 19C software.

Table of Contents
-----------------

* [Patching Fails](#patching-fails)
* [Moving Installer Script to Template](#moving-installer-script-to-template)
* [Incorrect Home Used in Response File](#incorrect-home-used-in-response-file)
* [Missing Groups for Oracle](#missing-groups-for-oracle)

Patching Fails
==============

The patching of the Oracle home fails (see issue
#[13](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/issues/13)).

It would appear that patching cannot be mixed with the installation of the
Oracle database software.

Moving Installer Script to Template
===================================

In order to solve issue #[10](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/issues/10)
("DURAL: Pre-installation O/S checks fails for Oracle 19.3 on OL8"),
I need to add the following statement before running the installer:
```bash
export CV_ASSUME_DISTID=OL7
```

Due to the limitations of Ansible (my knowledge included), I decided to create
a template file to generate a script that is then executed on __DURAL__ to do
the installation.

I called the template file `install_rdbms.sh.j2` because the function is to
install the RDBMS software. The `.j2` suffix marks this as a Jinga2 file.

Now having two (2) template files enabled me to parameterise the `TEMPLATE`
module call with a list of items.

Incorrect Home Used in Response File
====================================

Issue [#11](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/issues/14)
("DURAL: Incorrect Home Used in Response File") was raised.

Updated `create_test_server.yml` to replace `db_installer_loc` with
`oracle_home`.

The preference of the variable name, `oracle_home`, over `db_installer_loc`
matches the terms used in the installation documentation.

Missing Groups for Oracle
=========================

Issue #[14](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/issues/14) 
("DURAL: Oracle Groups are Missing from the Response File")
describes how the installation fails because the groups were not specified.

This was a mistake caused by a decision made in
[Design Journal Entry 2020-11-18](2020_11_18.md)
where I assumed that these parameters did not need to be set.

I took the names directly from the groups for the `oracle` user, and hard-coded
them in the template file, `db_install.rsp.j2`, because these names are set by
the pre-installation RPM.
