# 2020-12-30: Start Building Test Suite

## Overview

I have started coding the TCL script to run a performance test.

# Table of Contents

* [Review of Documentation](#review-of-documentation)
  * [Configuring Driver Script options](#configuring-driver-script-options)
  * [Oracle AWR Reports](#oracle-awr-reports)
  * [Autopilot for Automated Testing](#autopilot-for-automated-testing)
  * [Transactions](#transactions)
    * [Oracle Transaction Counter](#oracle-transaction-counter)
* [Coding the Test Script](#coding-the-test-script)
  * [Playbook](#playbook)
  * [TCL Script for Running Performance Test](#tcl-script-for-running-performance-test)
    * [Common Code Moved to Include Files](#common-code-moved-to-include-files)
  * [Flashback Database](#flashback-database)

# Review of Documentation

## Configuring Driver Script options

"[Configuring Driver Script options](https://www.hammerdb.com/docs/ch04s05.html)"
says:
> For all databases you have the option of selecting a Test Driver Script or a
> Timed Driver Script. The This choice will dynamically change the Driver Script
> that is loaded when the TPROC-C Driver Script menu option is chosen. The Test
> Driver Script is intended for verifying and testing a configuration only by
> displaying virtual user output for a small number of virtual users. In
> particular both Windows and Linux graphical displays are single-threaded
> permitting only one Virtual User to write to the display at any one time.
> Therefore the performance of writing to the display will limit throughput.
> Consequently once a schema is verified to conduct measured tests you should
> select the Timed Driver Script Option.

This seems to be affected by the `ora_driver` parameter. The default value is
`test`. It should be changed as follows:
```tcl
diset tpcc ora_driver timed
```

## Oracle AWR Reports

The [HammerDB](https://hammerdb.com/docs/ch04s07.html#d0e1839) documentation
says:
> __7.3. Oracle AWR Reports__
> 
> The Generation of Oracle AWR reports is built-in functionality with the Oracle
> Timed Test. At the end of the test HammerDB will report the snapshot numbers
> between which the report corresponds to the test.

## Autopilot for Automated Testing

"[Autopilot for Automated Testing](https://hammerdb.com/docs/ch05.html)" says:
> To automate this process of repeated tests HammerDB provides the autopilot
> feature that enables you to configure a single test to be repeated by a
> different numbers of virtual users a number of times. _Conceptually autopilot
> is best understood as having instructed a virtual DBA to manually repeat the
> test you have configured a number of times at a pre-determined time interval._
> That virtual DBA will then run the tests by ‘virtually’ pressing exactly the
> same buttons on the HammerDB interface that you would press as if running the
> test manually yourself. It is important to understand this concept as the most
> frequent user errors in using autopilot are as a result of not following this
> approach. _Before running autopilot you should ensure that you have run a
> number of tests manually and your system is in an optimal configuration for
> running tests up to your planned maximum Virtual User count._ For example you
> should enable enough space to schema growth throughout all of the tests you
> plan to run.
(_Emphasis Mine_)

__Autopilot__ is not applicable as I will be making changes outside of HammerDB.
I only require that HammerDB deliver a 100% CPU load.

## Transactions

"[Transactions](https://hammerdb.com/docs/ch06.html)" says:
> HammerDB includes a Transaction Counter that logs into the target database and
> samples the transaction rate displaying it in graph format to view the TPM of
> a test in real time. _Note that the TPM value is displayed as opposed to the
> NOPM value as TPM is selected from a database in-memory table and therefore
> sampling does not impact the test being measured. NOPM on the other hand is
> sampled from the schema itself and is therefore only measured at the start and
> end of the test to minimize the impact of testing upon performance. To
> configure the Transaction Counter select the Transactions tree-view. If
> Virtual Users are running the Transaction Counter Options can be selected from
> the menu.
(_Emphasis Mine_)

### Oracle Transaction Counter

In "[Oracle Transaction Counter](https://hammerdb.com/docs/ch06s01.html)", the
transactions are calculated as follows:
```sql
select sum(value)
    from v$sysstat
    where name = 'user commits' or name = 'user rollbacks'
```

# Coding the Test Script

## Playbook

The playbook is called `run_hammerdb_test.yml`. No alternative names were
considered as I envision a singular playbook to run the performance tests. The
retention of "hammerdb" denotes that this playbook is based on HammerDB.

This playbook should start the Oracle listener and database instance, if
required. Also, the playbook will flashback the PDB to the loaded test data.

## TCL Script for Running Performance Test

I created a TCL script based on a Jinja2 template,
"[run_hammerdb_test.tcl.j2](../templates/run_hammerdb_test.tcl.j2)".

### Common Code Moved to Include Files

In writing this TCL script, I separated several TCL code into several files:
1. "[count_tpcc_objs.tcl.inc](../templates/count_tpcc_objs.tcl.inc)"
1. "[logon_oracle.tcl.inc](../templates/logon_oracle.tcl.inc)"

## Flashback Database

If I use the following command to flashback the PDB from __hammer__ using the
`Oratcl` driver:

```sql
alter pluggable database tpcv3r3a close
```
I get the following message:
```
ORA-01031: insufficient privileges
```

This happens for both the `SYSTEM` and `PDBADMIN` users. I will have to use
the `SYS` user instead.

Design options are:
1. Enable remote login
1. Run flashback script on __DURAL__

Option 1 would be the simplest as it requires:
* the setting of a parameter, and
* creation of a password file.

Instead, I created a Python3 script that is generated from a Jinja2 template,
[flashback_pdb.py.j2](../templates/flashback_pdb.py.j2)".
