2020-11-30 Prepare DB for Testing
=================================

Overview
--------

I have read some of the configuration documentation for HammerDB and made some design decisions.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Review of HammerDB Documentation](#review-of-hammerdb-documentation)
  * [3.4 Comparing HammerDB results](#34-comparing-hammerdb-results)
  * [3.6 TPROC-C key similarities and differences from TPC-C](#36-tproc-c-key-similarities-and-differences-from-tpc-c)
  * [3.7 How many warehouses to create for the TPROC-C test](#37-how-many-warehouses-to-create-for-the-tproc-c-test)
  * [4.1 Test Network Configuration](#41-test-network-configuration)
  * [4.2 Installation and Configuration](#42-installation-and-configuration)
  * [4.3 Configuring Schema Build Options](#43-configuring-schema-build-options)

Review of HammerDB Documentation
================================

3.4 Comparing HammerDB results
------------------------------

"[4. Comparing HammerDB results](https://www.hammerdb.com/docs/ch03s04.html)" says:
> HammerDB workloads produce 2 statistics to compare systems called TPM and NOPM
> respectively. NOPM value is based on a metric captured from within the test
> schema itself. As such NOPM (New Orders per minute) as a performance metric
> independent of any particular database implementation is the recommended
> primary metric to use.

NOPM is the only metric to consider.

3.6 TPROC-C key similarities and differences from TPC-C
--------------------------------------------------------

"[6. TPROC-C key similarities and differences from TPC-C](https://www.hammerdb.com/docs/ch03s06.html)" says:
> The key difference is that by default HammerDB will run without keying and
> thinking time enabled (Note enabling event driven scaling will enable keying and
> thinking time to be run with a large number of user sessions). This means that
> HammerDB TPROC-C will run a CPU and memory intensive version of the TPC-C workload.

That this workload is CPU-intensive, is perfect for my purposes.

3.7 How many warehouses to create for the TPROC-C test
------------------------------------------------------

"[7. How many warehouses to create for the TPROC-C test](https://www.hammerdb.com/docs/ch03s07.html)" says:
> For a basic starting point create a schema with 250-500 warehouses per
> server CPU socket for more details size as follows.
> ...
> Typically an option of 4 to 5 warehouses per virtual user would be a
> minimum value to ensure an even distribution of virtual users to
> warehouse.
> ...
> As one virtual user can drive most of the capacity of one CPU core
> the actual value for the number of warehouses you choose will depend
> upon the number of cores per socket.

4.1 Test Network Configuration
------------------------------

"[1. Test Network Configuration](https://www.hammerdb.com/docs/ch04s01.html)" says:
> You require the database server to be tested known as the system under test
> (SUT) installed and configured with the target database server. You also
> require a load generation server to run HammerDB installed with the HammerDB
> software and a database client. Typically the load generation server is run on
> a separate system from the SUT with the load generated across the network. It
> is possible to run HammerDB on the same system as the SUT however this will be
> expected to produce different results from a network based load.

I have separated the load generation server onto __HAMMER.YAOCM.ID.AU__, and SUT
onto __DURAL.YAOCM.ID.AU__.

__4.1.3. CPU Single-Threaded Performance Calibration__

> By far one of the most common configuration errors with database performance
> testing is to have configured the CPUs to run in powersave mode. On some
> Linux operating systems this is the default configuration and therefore it is
> recommended to verify the CPU single-threaded performance and operating mode
> before running database workloads. One way to do this is to use the
> [Julian Dyke CPU performance test](http://www.juliandyke.com/CPUPerformance/CPUPerformance.php)
> (referenced by permission of Julian Dyke and there are versions shown below to
> run directly in HammerDB and for Oracle PL/SQL and SQL Server T-SQL). Note that
> the timings are not meant to equivalent and it is expected that the HammerDB
> based test is approximately twice as fast as PL/SQL or T-SQL.

I am not certain about the power-save mode, and whether to run to the CPU
calibration script.

4.2 Installation and Configuration
----------------------------------

"[2. Installation and Configuration](https://www.hammerdb.com/docs/ch04s02.html)" says:
> You should have the Oracle database software installed and a test database created
> and running. During the installation make a note of your system user password, you
> will need it for the test schema creation. (Note that the system user is used and
> not sys). You may at your discretion use an existing database however please note
> that HammerDB load testing can drive your system utilization to maximum levels and
> therefore testing an active production system is not recommended. After your database
> server is installed you should create a tablespace into which the test data will be
> installed allowing disk space according to the guide previously in this chapter.
> For example the following shows creating the tablespace in the ASM disk group DATA:
> 
> ```sql
> SQL> create bigfile tablespace tpcctab datafile '+DATA' size 100g;
> ```

I will need to add an extra disk drive (100GB) to the VM.

I also will need to add a service called `demo.yaocm.id.au`.

4.3 Configuring Schema Build Options
------------------------------------

"[3. Configuring Schema Build Options](https://www.hammerdb.com/docs/ch04s03.html)"
needs the following parameters set:

Option                        | Value
------------------------------|-------
Oracle Service Name           | DEMO.YAOCM.ID.AU
System User	                  | SYSTEM
System User Password          | {{ pw\_system }}
TPROC-C User                  | TPROCC
TPROC-C User Password         | {{ pw\_tprocc }}
TPROC-C Default Tablespace    | TPROCC\_DATA
TPROC-C Order Line Tablespace | TPROCC\_DATA
TPROC-C Temporary Tablespace  | TEMP
TimesTen Database Compatible  | No
Use Hash Clusters             | No
Partition Tables              | Yes
Number of Warehouses          | 200
Virtual Users to Build Schema | 200

I had already chosen __DEMO.YAOCM.ID.AU__ as the service name back on
[2020-11-16](2020_11_16.md).

The choice of __SYSTEM__ as the system user is the default. I saw no reason to
change this.

I chose __TPROCC__ as the user name because I will be using the TPROC-C workload.
The tablespace name, __TPROCC\_DATA__, was chosen to match the user name and
using __DATA__ as the suffix.

The default temporary tablespace, __TEMP__, was chosen because no other user is
expected to compete for this tablespace.

