2020-12-20 Created Group Variable Files
=======================================

Overview
--------

While requiring the requirements for improving the shutdown playbook to cater
for a running database instance, I ran into an issue with the same variable
being defined in multiple playbooks. I moved nearly all of the `set_fact`
definitions into group variable files.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Design Options for Shutdown Script](#design-options-for-shutdown-script)
* [Design Options for Variable Placement](#design-options-for-variable-placement)

Design Options for Shutdown Script
==================================

The shutdown script, `shutdown.yml`, needs to be updated to shut down
the database instance in a consistent manner. This script requires the
variables used to create the database instance.

Some of the variables were to be be found in the playbook,
`create_test_server.yml`. as discussed below, this was resolved through
group variable files.

I created a Jinja2 template file, `templates/shutdown_db.sh.j2`, that
creates a BASH script that shuts down Oracle listener and database
instance. I chose to use BASH rather than Python3 for managing the
Oracle database instance because the simplicity involved.

Design Options for Variable Placement
=====================================

Currently, variables are defined at the start of the playbook. This
has been untenable as the number of playbooks has expanded.

Since I decided in yesterday's [design journal entry](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/blob/master/resource_manager_thruput/design_journal/2020_12_19.md)
to use group names, it made sense to relocate variable definitions
from `set_fact` tasks in to one of the following group variable files:
- `inventory/group_vars/all.yml`
- `inventory/group_vars/client.yml`
- `inventory/group_vars/database.yml`

All of the variable definitions in `install_hammerdb.yml` have
been moved to `inventory/group_vars/client.yml` with common variables
moved to `inventory/group_vars/all.yml`.

Similarly for the playbooks, `configure_sut.yml` and `create_test_server.yml`,
nearly all of the variables have been moved to `inventory/group_vars/database.yml`
with common variables in `inventory/group_vars/all.yml`. The exception is the
variable, `response_file`, which remains in `create_test_server.yml`
because the scope of that variable is that playbook. Moving that variable out
of the playbook would have required renaming.

The common variables refer to general Oracle software installation:
- `oracle_user_home`
- `nfs_loc`
- `install_group`
- `inventory_location`
- `oracle_base`


