2020-12-22: Creation of SUT Database is Idempotent
==================================================

Overview
--------

Idempotency of the creation of the System Under Test (SUT) database is assumed
to exist when the database service is active within the Oracle Database
Listener.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Issues Resolved](#issues-resolved)
  * [DURAL: ORA-44303: service name exists](#dural-ora-44303-service-name-exists)
* [Other Design Changes](#other-design-changes)
  * [Dependency on Order of Steps](#dependency-on-order-of-steps)
  * [Database Service Name](#database-service-name)
  * [Checking Whether Service is Enabled](#checking-whether-service-is-enabled)

Issues Resolved
===============

DURAL: ORA-44303: service name exists
-------------------------------------

Issue #22 (_DURAL: ORA-44303: service name exists_) had to be resolved by
using uppercase for the SUT service name.

Other Design Changes
====================

Dependency on Order of Steps
----------------------------

The step, "Configure DB for SUT", in the script,
"[configure_sut.yml](../configure_sut.yml)", is now bypassed if the
database service is active in the Oracle Database listener.

This is not a really good design option.

An alternative to use Python3 to check the status of the service through O/S
calls, but I did not spend time fighting Python3 on how to do this.

Database Service Name
---------------------

Within an Oracle database, a database service is identified through:
1. Service Name
1. Service Network Name

In my original design, I had set these two (2) identifiers to be the same as
a matter of simplicity.

Now, I consider the first part of the _Service Network Name_ to be the
_Service Name_ as that part is unique within the global domain.

Checking Whether Service is Enabled
-----------------------------------

The _ENABLED_ status of the database service seems to be meaningless in
determining whether the database service is started. As such, I have removed
checking of the _ENABLED_ status.
