2020-12-18 Prepare DB for Testing (2)
=====================================

Overview
--------

I have started coding scripts to start up and configure a database instance.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Ansible Script](#ansible-script)
  * [Script Name](#script-name)
* [Auxiliary Scripts](#auxiliary-scripts)
  * [Start Listener](#start-listener)
  * [Start Database Instance](#start-database-instance)
  * [Configure SUT Database](#configure-sut-database)

Ansible Script
==============

Script Name
-----------

I chose `configure_sut.yml` as the script name because the function is to
configure. __SUT__ is an acronymn used by HammerDB documentaion for
_System Under Test_.

There is an auxiliary Ansible playbook, `startup_db.yml`, that starts up the
Oracle listener and database instance. I plan to use this playbook to run
HammerDB tests.

Auxiliary Scripts
=================

I have created three (3) auxiliary scripts to prepare the DB for testing:
1. `start_listener.sh`
1. `start_db_inst.py`
1. `configure_sut_db.py`

Start Listener
--------------

Since managing the Oracle Database Listener is easier through BASH, I decided
to code a separate script (`start_listener.sh`).

This name was chosen because of the verb-noun phrasing I prefer, and there is no
confusion with any other listeners on the server. The suffix, `.sh`, indicates
that the script is a shell script.

Rather than passing parameters to this script, I chose to generate the script
from a Jinja2 template file, `start_listener.sh.j2`. There is no need for a
general solution. A hard-coded one does the job.

The name of the template file is simply the name of the script with a `.j2`
suffix indicating that this is a Jinja2 template file.

Start Database Instance
-----------------------

As discussed in a previous journal entries,
([2020-12-05](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/blob/master/resource_manager_thruput/design_journal/2020_12_05.md)
and
[2020-12-06](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/blob/master/resource_manager_thruput/design_journal/2020_12_06.md)),
I will be using Python3 with the `cx_Oracle` module to manage Oracle database
instances.

I chose to separate the functions of starting the database instance from that of
configuring the database because I want to put the test runs in a separate
Ansible playbook, and I do not want to set up automatic start-up for database
instance.

As for starting the listener, I have used a Jinja2 template file,
`start_db_inst.py.j2`, to generate a hard-coded Python3 script,
`start_db_inst.py`, to start up the database instance and have the PDB opened.

There is minimal error handling by design. I did not want to spend extra time
testing unneeded paths.

Configure SUT Database
----------------------

As for starting the database instance, I used Python3 with the `cx_Oracle`
module to do the minimal configuration of the PDB for running HammerDB tests.

I used a Jinja2 template file, `configure_sut_db.py.j2`, to create a hard-coded
Python3 script, `configure_sut_db.py`.

If local undo is not enabled, the script simply fails as the path used to
create the database will enable local undo by default.

There is minimal error handling by design. I did not want to spend extra time
testing unneeded paths.
