2020-12-24 Complete Build of SUT
================================

Overview
--------

The System Under Test (SUT) has been built.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Idempotency](#idempotency)
* [TPC-C Schema Name](#tpc-c-schema-name)

Idempotency
===========

The problem is how to determine that the test data has been created successfully.
The easiest solution was to simply count the number of database objects in the
__TPCC__ schema.

If the number of objects was zero (0), I would assume that the __TPCC_ schema
had not been built.

Design alternatives would have involved far more complexity of coding and
testing. I did not think this was worthwhile.

I coded a Jinja2 template for a Python3 script called
"[count_tpcc_objects.py.j2](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/blob/master/resource_manager_thruput/templates/count_tpcc_objects.py.j2)"
to count the number of objects defined in the __TPCC__ schema.

If no objects were found, the following message is written to `STDOUT`:
```
No objects defined for TPCC.
```

This message is used to determine that the build schema step needs to run. This
is a possible design flaw as changing the text of the message can impact the
correctness of the workflow.

TPC-C Schema Name
=================

I used the default schema name of __TPCC__. I left this hard-coded into the
scripts because the number of places where it occurs was low.

I do not define it in a variable file or in a `set_fact` module call because
that would have implied that it was a configurable item. This would have meant
extra code to cater for in case someone wanted to change the name.
