2020-12-06 Choice of Scripting Language
=======================================

Overview
--------

I will be using Python to create scripts that manipulate the SUT database
because of the availability of the
[cx_Oracle](https://oracle.github.io/python-cx_Oracle) package for access
to an Oracle database. I will be using BASH for running system commands, and
Tcl for running HammerDB commands.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Design Options](#design-options)
  * [Overview](#overview)
  * [BASH](#bash)
  * [Tcl](#tcl)
  * [Python](#python)
* [Learning Tcl/Tk](#learning-tcltk)
  * [Developer's Guide](#developers-guide)

Design Options
==============

Overview
--------

I consider that the following three (3) languages suitable for configuring the
System Under Test (SUT) database on __DURAL.YAOCM.ID.AU__ server:

1. BASH
1. Tcl
1. Python

The main design selection criteria are:
1. Ease of interfacing with operating system commands
1. Ease of interfacing with Oracle SQL commands

BASH
----

I have been using BASH in multiple repositories to manage Oracle databases and
it is a natural interface to operating system commands.

This is the easiest interface to start and stop the Oracle database listener.

As discussed in the previous design journal entry,
"[2020-12-05](2020_12_05.md)",
the interface to Oracle requires a function wrapper around a SQL\*Plus session.
This is satisfactory for a single command and a single response.

Tcl
---

Since I need to code
[TclSH](https://www.tcl.tk/man/tcl8.4/UserCmd/tclsh.htm)
scripts in order to control HammerDB from Ansible, I should take this
opportunity to learn more about Tcl.

However as discussed in the previous design journal entry,
"[2020-12-05](2020_12_05.md)",
I was unable to get the Oracle interface module, `oratcl`, working correctly.

The interface to system commands seem to be straightforward.

If I was able to get the Oracle interface working correctly, I would have
used Tcl scripts exclusively for this project.  

Python
------

I have been using Python for several years and mainly use it in my
[local_utilities repository](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/local_utilities).

As discussed in my previous design journal entry,
"[2020-12-05](2020_12_05.md)",
using Python is my current best option for interfacing with an Oracle database.

However, the version of Python on the OL8 server does not interface easily
with the operating system commands.

Learning Tcl/Tk
===============

Developer's Guide
-----------------

I have started reading
"[Tcl/Tk: A Developer's Guide](https://www.google.com.au/books/edition/Tcl_Tk/Q456ZBToexUC)"
in order to learn about Tcl/Tk.
