2020-12-23: HammerDB schema created
===================================

Overview
--------

Three (3) issues were resolved. The HammerDB schema was successfully created in
the System Under Test (SUT) database.

Table of Contents
=================

* [Issues Resolved](#issues-resolved)
  * [HAMMER: Unable to connect to SUT DB via SQL*Plus](#hammer-unable-to-connect-to-sut-db-via-sql*plus)
  * [HAMMER: buildschema fails with ORA-00959](#hammer-buildschema-fails-with-ora-00959)
  * [RES_MGR_THRU: Remove Hostnames from Scripts](#res_mgr_thru-remove-hostnames-from-scripts)
* [Other Design Changes](#other-design-changes)
  * [Checking for Existence of Database Service](#checking-for-existence-of-database-service)
  * [Building TPC-C Schema](#building-tpc-c-schema)
  * [Dependency on Order of Steps](#dependency-on-order-of-steps)
  
Issues Resolved
===============

There were three (3) issues to be resolved:
1. _RES\_MGR\_THRU: Remove Hostnames from Scripts_ #21
1. _HAMMER: Unable to connect to SUT DB via SQL*Plus_ #24
1. _HAMMER: buildschema fails with ORA-00959_ #26

RES\_MGR\_THRU: Remove Hostnames from Scripts
-------------------------------------------

Previous discussion on issue #21 (_RES\_MGR\_THRU: Remove Hostnames from Scripts_)
can be found in the [2020-12-19](2020_12_19.md) entry.

To complete the removal of hostnames, I had to devise a way of coding the
TNSNAMES entry for the SUT database by parameterising the alias name and the host
name.

The alias name was the first part of the `SUT_SERVICE_NAME`, and the host name
was the first host name in the DATABASE group.

HAMMER: Unable to connect to SUT DB via SQL*Plus
------------------------------------------------

Issue #24 (_HAMMER: Unable to connect to SUT DB via SQL*Plus_)
was resolved by disabling the firewall on __DURAL__ (the database
server).

The alternatives were:
- Configure firewall on __DURAL__
- Use SSH tunnel from __HAMMER__ to __DURAL__

I found the configuration of the firewall in Ansible to be difficult, and I gave
up the attempt. This would have been the best option as it was the most secure.

Using a SSH tunnel would have possible but it requires an active session for it
to work. I could not conceive of how to use Ansible to achieve this as the
Ansible script does not use a permanent connection.

HAMMER: buildschema fails with ORA-00959
----------------------------------------

Issue #26 (_HAMMER: buildschema fails with ORA-00959_) had the error message:
```
ORA-00959: tablespace 'TPCCTAB' does not exist create user tpcc identified by tpcc default tablespace tpcctab temporary tablespace temp
```

I chose to create the tablespace through the script generated from the Jinja2
template,
"[configure_sut_db.py.j2](../templates/configure_sut_db.py.j2)".

The alternative I considered was to create the tablespace outside of Ansible as
I had done with creating the mount point and formatting the additional partition
for the extra 100GB needed for the test data. I rejected this alternative as I
could recreate the __TPCC_ tablespace with different characteristics if I so
choose.

I used an extra variable, `tpcc_tablespace_name`, for the name of the __TPCC__
tablespace. The name of the datafile, `tpcc_tablespace_datafile`, is derived
from the global database name, `globalDBName`. All three (3) variables were
moved to the ALL group variable file,
"[all.yml](../inventory/group_vars/all.yml)".

Other Design Changes
====================

Checking for Existence of Database Service
------------------------------------------

Instead of worrying about no data being returned from a query, I used the same
method as for detecting the presence of a tablespace and user objects:
```sql
SELECT count(*)
    FROM dba_services
    WHERE name='{sut_service_name}'
```

This maintains a consitency in coding with the SQL for this script,
"[configure_sut_db.py.j2](../templates/configure_sut_db.py.j2)".

Building TPC-C Schema
---------------------

I used two (2) script templates to build the TPC-C schema in the SUT database:
- [create_hammerdb_schema.sh.j2](../templates/create_hammerdb_schema.sh.j2)
- [create_tpcc_schema_parms.tcl.j2](../templates/create_tpcc_schema_parms.tcl.j2)

I used the first script to establish the Oracle client environment before
calling the HammerDB CLI to run the second script.

I realise that there is an inconsistency in the names used for the variables to
denote the names of these scripts:
- `create_hammerdb_schema_script`
- `create_tpcc_schema_parms`

One (1) has the `_script` while the other doesn't.

Dependency on Order of Steps
----------------------------

The script template,
"[configure_sut_db.py.j2](../templates/configure_sut_db.py.j2)", had the
following comment added at the start:
```
# The creation of the database service must be the last thing done as the
# driving script bypasses this script if the database service is active.
```
and, towards the end:
```
# **** This must be the last step ****
```

This is not a really good design option.

An alternative to use Python3 to check the status of the service through O/S
calls, but I did not spend time fighting Python3 on how to do this.
