# 2021-01-15: Test Runs on XEN Server (Victoria)

## Overview

Extra metrics were collected from the AWR reports. Some housekeeping (disabling firewalls and saving the open state of the PDB) was done. AWR reports are now generated automatically once the load test completes.

# Table of Contents

* [Extra Statistics](#extra-statistics)
* [Disabling Firewall](#disabling-firewall)
* [Automatic Generation of AWR Reports](#automatic-generation-of-awr-reports)
* [Prevent Automatic Switching of ORM Plans](#prevent-automatic-switching-of-orm-plans)
* [Save State of Pluggable Database](#save-state-of-pluggable-database)
d

# Extra Statistics

The AWR report reader, `extract_stats_from_awr_rpt.py`, has been updated to
extract the following statistics:

- From _Host Information_,
  - `memory`
  - `platform`
  - `num_cpus`
- From _Snapshot Information_,
  - `startup_time` identifies the experimental setup as each setup requires a startup of the database instance.
  - `snap_time` identifies a separate experimental run.
- From _Load Profile_, the per second
  - `logical_reads` which is the rate of data blocks read in the database cache
  - `user_calls`
  - `SQL_executes`
- From _PDB Instance Information_,
  - `dbid` is extracted to distinguish between databases created on different VMs.

# Disabling Firewall

The load test playbook, `run_hammerdb_test.yml`, has been updated to disable the firewall on __DURAL__ prior to every test. I do not why this is now necessary, but I suspect I made some unrecorded change on the original incarnation of __DURAL__ that made this unnecessary in earlier test runs.

# Automatic Generation of AWR Reports

The custom load test script, `custom_load.tcl.j2`, now generates the AWR report for the completed load test in the `/home/hammer/awr_reports` directory on __HAMMER__.

# Prevent Automatic Switching of ORM Plans

There is an extra parameter to prevent automatic switching of ORM plans to use when setting an ORM plan - prefix the plan name by `FORCE:`. The script, `set_res_mgr_plan.py.j2`, was updated to enforce this as well as to add error handling.

# Save State of Pluggable Database

The startup script, `start_db_inst.py.j2`, now saves the open state of the PDB so that future startups of the CDB instance will automatically open the PDB as well.
