# 2021-01-10: Randomised ORM Plan Treatment

## Overview

In order to do a randomised control test (RCT), the treatment of which Oracle
Resource Manager (ORM) plan to use is generated from a shuffled list.

# Table of Contents

* [Random Allocation of ORM Plans](#random-allocation-of-orm-plans)
  * [Rationale for Random Plans](#rationale-for-random-plans)
  * [Design Options for Random Plans](#design-options-for-random-plans)
  * [Choice of Names for Plan Selection](#choice-of-names-for-plan-selection)
  * [Source of Plans](#source-of-plans)
* [Improved AWR Data Extraction](#improved-awr-data-extraction)
  * [Ignore Subdirectories](#ignore-subdirectories)

# Random Allocation of ORM Plans

## Rationale for Random Plans

The objective to randomly apply the Oracle Resource Manager (ORM) plan for each
iteration of the load test. This should overcome any issues that may be caused
when plans are used in some order.

## Design Options for Random Plans

There are several design options:
1. Have the load test script randomly choose an ORM plan. The difficulty is that
each plan is likely to have an unequal number of replications. And there is a
non-zero probability that all runs use the same ORM plan.
2. Shuffle a deck of pre-chosen plans. This is a better option as I guarantee the
equal replication for each plan, while ensuring that the plans are applied in a
random order.

## Choice of Names for Plan Selection

The Ansible variable name is `set_res_mgr_plan_script`.
The script name is `set_res_mgr_plan.py`.

## Source of Plans

The plans to be shuffled are set in the `set_fact` module.
The plan is passed through the Jinja2 `shuffle` filter within an Ansbile loop.
This requires that a separate playbook,`run_one_hammerdb_test.yml`, be used to
set the ORM plan and then run an iteration of the load test.

# Improved AWR Data Extraction

## Ignore Subdirectories

Sub-directories are not processed when extracting data from AWR reports. This
allows me to save old reports in a sub-directory.


