# 2021-01-24: Fixing Issues with CDB Load Test

## Overview

These issues (#43, #44, and #45) highlighted differences in coding between for
PDB and CDB. The Oracle Resource Manager (ORM) plan names are different, and
the `CON_ID` for a session connected to the root container (`CDB$ROOT`) and the
data stored therein are different.

# Table of Contents

* [Design Choices](#design-choices)
  * [Rationale](#rationale)
  * [Issue 43](#issue-43)
  * [Issue 44](#issue-44)
    * [Best Solution to Issue 44](#best-solution-to-issue-44)
    * [Implemented Solution to Issue 44](#implemented-solution-to-issue-44)
  * [Issue 45](#issue-45)

# Design Choices

## Rationale

The overriding design consideration is that of backward compatibility. The
earlier test runs should still be reproducible.

## Issue 43

Issue, "DURAL: INTERNAL_PLAN is an Invalid CDB Plan #43", was caused by having
the wrong plan specified, `INTERNAL_PLAN`, instead of `ORA$INTERNAL_CDB_PLAN`.

The code in `run_hammerdb_test_on_CDB.yml` was changed to reflect this.

## Issue 44

Issue, "DURAL: DEFAULT_PLAN is set during CDB Performance Test #44", was caused
by the plan being set to `DEFAULT_PLAN` from a previous run of the load test
against the PDB, `TPCV3R3A`.

### Best Solution to Issue 44

The best solution would have been to update a script with the following
parameters:

- plan name (currently implemented)
- container name (defaults to the test PDB, `TPCV3R3A`)

In the CDB test run, I would need to run this step before starting the load test.
However, this would have required that I have two (2) invocations:

1. Set plan for PDB once before test loops start. This does not affect the PDB
load test, as the next step corrects the PDB ORM plan as needed.
2. Set plan for CDB inside the test loop. In the PDB load test, the default
behaviour would continue.

I only realised that this was the best solution after I had made the change. If
I had done the design analysis before I started coding, I would have implemented
the better solution.

### Implemented Solution to Issue 44

The solution I implemented use Jinja2 conditional logic to set the PDB ORM plan
every time the CDB ORM plan is set.

The only reason for this design choice was that it involved no change to the
main set of tasks in the load test (`run_hammerdb_test_common.yml`).

The code in `set_res_mgr_plan.py.j2` was changed to reflect this.

## Issue 45

Issue, "HAMMER: Custom CDB Load Test fails to take AWR Snapshot #45", was
caused by the conflict between the `CON_ID` returned by the `SYS_CONTEXT'
function (one (1)) and the value used in the view, `DBA_HIST_DATABASE_INSTANCE`
(zero (0)).

The remedy was to use the following SQL snippet:
```sql
DECODE(SYS_CONTEXT('USERENV','CON_ID'), 1, 0, SYS_CONTEXT('USERENV','CON_ID'))
```

The code in `custom_load.tcl.j2` was changed to reflect this.

