# 2021-01-08: Successful load test on 1 CPU and started analysis 

## Overview

I found appropiate load test settings and started analysis of the captured AWR
performance data. The PDB is no longer flashed back before each load test.

# Table of Contents

* [Performance Load Test Settings](#performance-load-test-settings)
* [Flashback PDB No Longer Done](#flashback-pdb-no-longer-done)
* [Extraction of Statistics](#extraction-of-statistics)

# Performance Load Test Settings

The test driver now:
1. Runs the required SQL statement one (1) million times for each connected user.
1. The duration of the performance test is fifteen (15) minutes.
1. One hundred (100) users are simulated to load the system.

# Flashback PDB No Longer Done

Because the load test only does read-only queries, there is no need to flashback
the PDB.

One (1) side-effect of the flashback was to lose the AWR data for the PDB. I had
not realised this when I first designed this project.

# Extraction of Statistics

Instead of extracting the statistics directly from the `DBA_HIST_*` views, I
will instead read the statistics out of the AWR HTML reports.

The statistics collected are:
1. Number of CPUs reported.
1. Elapsed time covered by the AWR report.
1. Number of executions of the SQL statement (SQL ID=585dqg3uyuxaj) which is the
SQL statement I am using to generate the CPU load.
1. Oracle Resource Manager used.

The AWR reports are stored in the `awr_reports` directory which is excluded
from the GIT repository.

I used a Python3 script, called [extract_stats_from_awr_rpt.py](../extract_stats_from_awr_rpt.py).
