# 2021-01-22: Convert to CDB Plans

## Overview

My original analysis of Oracle Resource manage (ORM)
("[High CPU Usage with a CDB Resource Plan](https://yaocm.wordpress.com/2019/12/17/high-cpu-usage-with-a-cdb-resource-plan/)")
used CDB plans instead of PDB plans. I will run the load tests with CDB plans
instead of PDB plans.

# Table of Contents

* [Rationale](#rationale)
* [Design Choices](#design-choices)
  * [Setting the Plan](#setting-the-plan)
  * [TNS Alias for System Connection](#tns-alias-for-system-connection)
  * [New Variables](#new-variables)
  * [New Playbook](#new-playbook)

# Rationale

My [initial comparison](https://yaocm.wordpress.com/2019/12/17/high-cpu-usage-with-a-cdb-resource-plan/)
on the effects of Oracle Resource Manager (ORM) plans was done at the CDB level.
All of my recent experiments have been done at the PDB level. These seem to show
that having no ORM plan set improves throughput in some cases.

Now, I want to use CDB plans instead.

# Design Choices

The overriding consideration is that of backward compatibility.

## Setting the Plan

The options are:

- Set the container in the Jinja2 template, `set_res_mgr_plan.py.j2`, through
Jinja2 logic. In Jinja2, undefined variables are set to `None`.
- The same template, `set_res_mgr_plan.py.j2`, can have an optional second
parameter which sets the container in which the ORM plan is to be set. The
default would be to use the PDB name as was before.

I chose the first option because it was the simplest code change. The second
option would have been better from a code reuse POV.

## TNS Alias for System Connection

Since the connections used by the `TPCC` and `SYSTEM` users can now be to
differing containers, it is now necessary to use two (2) difference TNS aliases.
However for backward compatibility, I must code for the absence of this new
TNS alias in the playbook.

The variable for the TNS alias to be used for connection by the `SYSTEM` user 
is called `tns_system_alias`. The corresponding one for the `TPCC` user is left
as `tns_alias` for backward compatibility.

This variable, `tns_system_alias`, is added to the Jinja2 template,
`custom_load.tcl.j2`.

I will need to add code to create the new TNS alias entry.

## New Variables

There are two (2) new variables:
1. `tns_system_alias`
2. `target_container`

For backward compatibility, both of these variables will be undefined in the
Ansible playbook.

## New Playbook

I created a new playbook, `run_hammerdb_test_on_CDB.yml`, that:

- sets the above variables
- creates the new TNS alias
- runs the original load test playbook

The second step should have gone into the client configuration script, but this
would have caused several problems:

- the absence of the variable, `tns_system_alias`, is used to generate code to
connect to the CDB rather than the PDB. I would have had to add an extra
variable to achieve the same functionality.
- all of the preceding development was built on the premise that the tests were
isolated to a single PDB. Elevating this change to client configuration would
have meant a deep design review.

This new playbook required that I split out the common tasks in a new file,
`run_hammerdb_test_common.yml`, from `run_hammerdb_test.yml`.

Because the CDB itself does not have an ORM plan called `DEFAULT_PLAN`, there
is one called, `DEFAULT_CDB_PLAN`, instead. As such, I had to move the list of
plan names out of `run_hammerdb_test_common.yml` into `run_hammerdb_test.yml`.
